h1. boxo

Boxo is a key-value database written in <a href="clojure.org">Clojure</a>.

Clojure is a lisp dialect that runs on the JVM.  It provides a great foundation for concurrency and atomicity which lend themselves to a project like Boxo.  The goals of this project are to provide a simple, fast, filesystem-backed key-value database engine much in the style of <a href="http://code.google.com/p/redis/">Redis</a>.  I would also like to provide adapters for most languages.

This is a _very_ early release of Boxo, it doesn't provide many of the features you'll be looking for in a reliable, scalable k/v store.  I can heartily recommend <a href="http://code.google.com/p/redis/">Redis</a> or some of the other entries in this field for a production environment.  This is my attempt to write a key value store, and should be treated as alpha quality software until otherwise noted.

The base code for this was heavily influenced by the excellent work of Topfunky at <a href="http://peepcode.com/">Peepcode</a> who has a great screencast and introduction to Clojure.

h1. Install

Prerequisites:
* Clojure:
** <a href="http://clojure.org/">Clojure</a>
* Clojure-contrib:
** <a href="http://code.google.com/p/clojure-contrib/">Clojure-contrib</a>

You'll want to edit the CLASSPATH in boxo.sh to include the path to your clojure.jar and clojure-contrib.jar.

h1. Usage

Start the server:

<pre>
  <code>
    > ./boxo.sh &
    Launching boxo server on port 2323
    > telnet localhost 2323
    Connected to localhost.
    Escape character is '^]'.
    SET 1 microwizards
    +OK
    GET 1 
    microwizards
  </code>
</pre>

h1. Protocol specification

  This is still under development

h1. License

Copyright (c) 2009 Dan Herrera
 
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:
 
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.